Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that packs for an overnight stay by taking literally everything they've ever owned.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm Don.
And I'm a dried out packet of Yates seedlings.
I'm trying to get Nathan's word.
You know, cosplay Ian McKellen Gandalf dressing gown for this one.
Well, because this is a good episode, I've decided to go serious on the keyword, and I'll tell you it in a minute, but we are watching...
It is, yes.
We are watching season one, episode 23.
Or 24 if you actually respect everyone who worked on it.
Is the spiritual season finale.
And the last scene they filmed.
Next door to Dragons domain, actually.
Did you know they were both going at the same time, yeah.
And also, I think if we respected everyone who ever worked on this, we wouldn't have started this podcast.
No, that is true.
Hi Nick Tate, who isn't talking to us.
For a reason.
So it's called the Testament of Arcadia.
It's by Johnny Byrne, surprisingly, even though it's incredibly good.
And, well, it's one of those ones that I actually have a really, really strong memory of.
And all I can remember is very vividly that final scene of the 2 of them, of Anna and Luke, on the surface of the planet as the moon heads away from them. completely fucked.
I think this is pretty special and super interesting and I'm really looking forward to talking about it.
I think it's properly good.
We're a bit worried that it's so good.
It won't be fun.
Yeah, yeah.
So we apologise in advance.
We'll just talk about other things much like this podcast.
So I think we should go straight in.
There aren't massive longers here, and I think there is quite a lot to say, but nevertheless, let's not hang about.
I will preface before we go in, note the tone because the actors didn't know they were going to get called back.
The series was already, even though it hadn't been shown.
There was still no network purchase from New York.
So they were going, yeah, this is probably it.
So you'll, you'll just, if, if you're aware of that, trust yourself and your imagination because you might notice there's a certain song foid in the way it's played, which I think makes it even better.
I mean, I think that it works as the final episode.
Oh, Sylvia said that.
Yeah.
And there was a lot of work on this.
It was Chris Penfold and Johnny Byrne and Sylvia.
Right, right.
Offering hints.
And actually, Jerry as well, not to underestimate Jerry's ability to know what works on screen.
Yeah.
I mean, I mean, I think it's it is beautifully weird.
There are some problems with it, I think, which Lisa Harrow is weird too.
Oh, we have to talk about Lisa Harris.
But I was enthralled by this.
I have to say, even as a kid, and perhaps even more when I watched it again yesterday for the 1st time in decades.
So is it Ezekiel?
What's that?
No.
So in a moment, I'm going to ask Richard to press play and I'm going to ask him to press play when I say a key word and I'm afraid inevitably that key word is going to be Eden.
And so when I next say that word, I'm going to get Richard to press the... doing it on the end.
Yes, of course.
All right, here goes.
Eden.
And we're off.
Well, for once, this isn't the n, n, n, n, n.
Do you notice this beautiful bit of tune?
It's very strange.
From Chapel Recorder?
Well, it's because it's French.
It's Passionato Andante by Serge Lanson.
It was just with his orchestra symphonique, which was just a chapel 1972 library music.
But finally, isn't it lovely?
the final vision of the Peach Melbourne alert.
Yeah, yeah.
Cigarettes consumed four.
Alcohol consumes seven.
Still the prettiest.
Yeah, yeah.
Calories, I think.
That's a calorie count in there.
And because it's the 70s, you have to go absolutely nuts as if Roger Moore is in the next stage. hitting a smutch smaller man who's also defenceless.
What I love is that in this last episode of the show ever, because I actually refuse to regard any episode after this, can it?
What is the last episode?
Yeah, yeah.
Um, uh, that we have a captain's log. but it's being done with, you know, on pieces of paper.
I buy Konig with his shitty Parker pen.
You noticed they didn't give him much time because they've cleared his fricking office out and put gym equipment. was like, mate.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's done.
We're done.
Not even trying to even...
Is that is that Luke back then?
Yeah, it is.
It is Luke.
It is.
You little car.
Why didn't they call him Luca?
It would have made so much more sense.
Yeah, so he's called Luke Farrow.
He is like, he is phenomenal butt actor.
Ridiculously hard.
His name is Orso Maria Guerini.
That's correct.
Also Maria Grini.
It was one of the 1st chosen to be an ensemble cast.
Yes, but again, Marty.
Marty got the jelly beans.
Well, that's right.
But he is dubbed by Marty Nixon.
Robert Wright.
He is.
Roberto Wright, is that correct?
He's actually not.
It's only in certain bits because he couldn't come back and do the post.
I wonder because there was a stubbing list.
It was an unusually good job, even for public writing.
It's not and writing's amazing.
Because, you know, he also does Adolpho Celli in Thunderball and Tiger Tanaka, what's his name?
Tetsuro Tamba in You Only Lived.
I would say he was doing the accent.
Doing the fricking accent.
That was another Italian guy.
He's the Nicky... of this podcast.
What am I trying to say, Nicky?
Vandersiel.
That was the other name I was going to try to come up with.
No, it's not a sad person.
Are you loving?
So that again, we've got a gorgeous director here, one of our all-time favourite people, David Thomas.
Yeah, say the moon stops.
David was a very kinetic actor, as in he, there was no money.
There was no time.
They had no money left.
So even some of the effect shots, but David just said, it's got to feel balletic and ensemble, he actually wanted to do it as if it was a New York dance company thing.
So you notice they're all lined up together and they all move together.
So anyway. he's the director of another time, another place.
In fact, we borrow an effect shot.
We do, but it's not actually used in that episode.
Okay.
I will get to it.
Oh, 74 degrees.
Last time.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm feeling a bit emotional.
I am too.
And it really is the end of of this next year. good quality television.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't remember what the next episode is, but I gather it.
No, it's a fabulous cadence denouement of girly titty space action.
It's the last enema and it's fantastic.
It's so camp.
Is it?
Ladyland?
Is it planet of the land?
Ladyland.
Okay.
It's Captain Kremen.
I can't believe the commander got in a kimono before...
Yeah.
Before Victor.
Well, Victor was in a Makono off camera.
Yeah, that's right.
All the time.
Constantly inviting people back to see what's behind under the kimono.
There's Alpha Etchings.
So this is deliberately, the effects are also, even though it had no money, it still had the normal budget for effects.
So it's not just our sentiment that these are some of the most beautiful effects you'll see in the series.
They're quick.
It's got the best eagle shots in the office.
Oh, there's some stunning things.
And we are going to spangasm when they come.
It's the use of the light bulb as the sun, which they're doing in that sort of opening shot where you...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But, but it's, like, just the mythic.
I think there's a bit of a shame here because we've seen them freezing to death before.
We've seen them running out of life support and stuff before.
But here, I think there's something really much more kind of, um, important and solemn and stuff about it.
Because this is, this is them being brought to where they need to be and they're here because this is why they were blown out of the Urse orbit in the 1st place.
Thank you.
So Johnny Byrne very deliberately. and predicated it with Chris because it's a bit of an urban myth now that Johnny was the series script editor.
He wasn't.
It was Chris Penfold.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was always Chris Penfold.
Chris got the Nagis and left, as we've discussed previously, and Johnny, because Jerry and Sylvia really liked his earlier episodes, brought him in to finish off the series, and there's definitely a tone, which I think is perfect for the show personally, of what Johnny does.
But this one, he said, and he said quite deliberately with Sylvia, okay, black son, collision course, war games, this is the quartet.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
And just as David Tomlin with Pat McGoon for the prisoner said. you really only need 5 episodes of this to understand it.
Johnny and Sylvia and Jerry thought, actually, you really only need these 4 episodes to tell our story.
And isn't that quite beautiful?
think it is.
And the fun machine.
You get a phone machine.
But it's the fact that the moon stops.
It's a thing that we've never seen before.
And the way that the power drain is counted down to us on the...
Also, as Sylvia said, and as Nick Tate said, we were freezing our bollocks off, mate, except mom Australia.
I didn't use that word because right now when this was being filmed was the 3 to the height of the 3 day week in the UK, the power cuts, and they had 2 massive diesel generators the size of that were fit into an eagle pod, offset at Pinewood to be able to shoot this.
Wow.
Yeah.
And they were actually cold. when they were shooting it because it was shot.
I'm trying to remember.
Principal photography, at 11, 25, 11 to 25 of February.
They did it in 11 days.
They did it on top.
Look, it's beautiful.
Everything we see of the Eagles.
The boys knew Nick Elder knew this was going to be the last one.
Are these all the things you ordered?
Yes, yes.
Because that's what those huge fricking octagonal things are.
They're chop suey crates from the takeaway.
And his Luke with his space camera.
Yes.
It's kind of size.
You're a meerkat.
And spent.
So this is Lisa Harrow, Lisa, who is Lisa with an S. Lisa's not an S. Lisa with her.
And she's from Auckland, New Zealand.
Oh, and she cuffs it quite well, doesn't she?
The hair, however, is from...
She just played Helen in the movie version of all creatures great and small.
I remember a show, a film from 1993, which I have really strong memories of that was shot here in Sydney in Inner City Sydney, not very far from where we're sitting, called The Last Days of Chenu.
Oh, yeah. which was Gillian Armstrong directing, and Helen Garner wrote it, and she was the star in it.
She had already done.
It was superb.
She'd already done 1990.
Does anyone remember that?
The Spacey thing.
I remember the ads for it when I was there. read about it, but yes.
I loved it.
It was actually early 80s and it was...
Why is she a vampire?
Well, she always is.
Barbara.
Again, was it Brendan who said, why didn't they fricking put recliner legs on their bloody seats?
I thought that the exact moment I was watching this last night.
Now, we just had a shot of a sort of abstract pattern on a screen above Victor, which, you know, as this is intended to be the season one finale, mirrors.
Here's my favourite.
Beautiful.
We've never seen that Corona.
No, no.
Stunning.
Sorry, Brenton.
That's all right.
No, I was just saying that that sort of abstract shot mirrors the apparent message from Meta at the end of breakaway.
Oh, clever.
Yeah, I love this.
I actually think he is super charming.
Straight out of Italian playgirl.
But he's not just a big, hot guy with a fabulous moustache.
Like, there's some really good acting choices he does flying out of the sun.
Yes, I think it works.
Beautiful, yeah, yeah.
And that's just a light bulb, isn't it?
Brendan, like, that's just a light bulb.
Well, it's a cutout.
It's actually a big arc light and then a cutout and that makes that shining a hell of a lot of light onto the backdrop so you get, you don't get it in shadow.
My partner knows where to get those mugs.
Oh, yeah.
Oh.
Oh, really?
Yes, please.
Have I told you my husband collects crockery or glassware?
Like, he actually has the same set as is featured in the Avengers, the correct way to kill at the end during the tag scene, where 95% of the men in the armed forces come from the armed forces.
Sorry, I completely butchered the room.
It's like 90% of the sanitation workers in Russia are women, 50% of the police officers, 40% of the men in the army come from the armed forces.
It's a great episode.
We've got Tony Allen and Quentin Pitt, but this is the best shot of an eagle landing.
It's new.
It is only one reuse for this and we'll point it out.
Wasn't that superb?
Do you think it's the little...
It's wonderful.
Of the legs on the eagle. gorgeous.
That's the thing.
I think Johnny Byrne's been very smart because when I was watching this, I thought, okay, I think this voiceover has been added in post because the story doesn't make sense.
But no, it was actually in the script because Johnny went, rather than just have it all on the base. let's have our usual planet and I will save time by having this voiceover so we we can shoot less.
This planet makes me think 1st season Star Trek next gen.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. except it's a bit better.
And no, it is better.
It is much better and not done on video.
But the background and the horizon and all of that is very...
And Rick Burman's not drooling somewhere off.
Yeah, yeah.
But I was thinking the cycloramus.
It's one of the few times on a stage that we actually get a sense of depth.
I think it's beautiful.
I'm quite convinced.
I've been to Canberra It's just like this.
Yeah, I've been in the bush after bushfires.
That's what it is.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, we've had a bunch of planets with the red sky.
And I think my memory from that was that the sky was red and I was a little bit shocked that it wasn't like that, but I must have been conflating a bunch of episodes. equipment when I 1st watched it.
But it's just like, we're here for 30 hours.
Like, this is what you're packing.
Like just bring a small overnight bag.
You'll be fine.
We've actually got some stamp.
Did you notice that the tint has been changed when you, for the effects fan kids out there?
When the eagle lands, it was deliberately reuse from another time another place.
But this shot has never been seen before.
In that episode, it's a scan and panic.
The camera moves.
This shot is static.
But the sky was yellow, but they've restored this.
The network people restored this so it's got blue sky behind it because they care for us.
I think what's brilliant here too, is this is the scene where Anna discovers that these plants are all just earth native plants that are dead.
Macho wig, but we don't get to find that out until later.
And so she calls him over.
God, he's hot. check out his butt.
There it is.
Freddie Mercury.
He is.
He's also, well, Sylvia said there weren't, it was difficult getting quality actors that could fit the outfit. in Italy as well.
Well, no, she said the Italian as well.
Well, you would think, but actually, you know, she said, you know, never had a problem with the Italians, but then she mentions Martin in this episode.
We had a bit of difficulty convincing him to wear the correct undergarment.
Because his outfit was delivered to him from day one with a huge Patrick McNe endorsed corset.
He was actually required to win, but he doesn't always.
And there's one or 2 where he insisted on wearing boxer shorts.
We can go back and watch them.
Oh, God.
I'm not sure I was. want to.
Not only do they have to get people who can fit in them, but they all have to dress to the left.
Victor's looking actually pretty good in, you know, considering it's his last episode ever.
Of anything?
That's not true.
He did do a couple of other things afterwards.
So what happens, like, main mission just collapses on him and him and Paul.
Oh, it's even worse.
We might save it for...
It is a line giving to Zena, given to Zena in series two.
Oh, okay.
Like everything in series two. a throwaway.
Oh, hello.
Okay, am I the only one that got dogs playing poker out of it?
Look, I'm sorry.
I was loving this so much.
All I could think of was skeletons playing poker.
She did look very startled going into the ad break there.
Is that the photo by the way?
Well, she's not prepared for Kitch.
Are you going to play the game, Don?
I'm guessing which...
Oh, I have a fear.
Have we seen it?
No, no, you haven't seen it.
It's coming.
Okay.
Now, I am going to take...
Yeah.
So I don't know why they don't identify this as Hindi because it's Dave and I agree and it's just the same alphabet.
Thank you.
I also don't know why all of the horizontal lines on the letters aren't joined together because that's how you do it.
They're all kind of separate.
Vetra set.
No, I think it's because of...
It is literally...
That's where it's going.
Well, here's the thing.
Anna, I was going to say, Anna, that's wrong.
Anna does have trouble translating it.
So perhaps it's not quite Sanskrit.
No, no, no.
And in fact, I think that seems really great.
I was telling my friends at work today.
That's why you're here.
I did talk to someone who knows Sanskrit this morning and say, and did say that...
Can you... going to give him a screenshot.
I'm going to get you to translate.
It will almost certainly be something from the Hitipadacia about monkeys, but whatever.
Well, it might be contract negotiations.
Someone would have slipped in, you know?
Yeah, that's right.
I'm sorry, we can't afford Morse and Morrow or whatever his name is.
Who is it?
What's his name?
Prentice.
We can't afford Prentice or Moore, Snackfear, or Clifton, or Anton for more than 2 episodes?
Or is Anton in it briefly?
Anton's in it briefly Very briefly.
And then he goes, this is awesome.
That's what I should talk about next year.
They wouldn't give him a contract.
Ah, yeah.
And he wanted a contract.
Yeah.
Look at that giant face.
And the other giant face.
He actually reminds me a bit of Freddie Jones.
Yep, I can see that.
Freddie Jones sort of circuit.
With cloth eyebrows.
With cloth eyebrows, yes.
I just thought he thought that was dead him because I had only dear memories of this.
It's like, that's me.
Why does I broke all of the bones in my in my eye sockets.
My bones when I was a child.
Just like that?
Yeah, that's right.
Why does fucking Paul play backgammon like that?
Why do you knock other people's pieces off the thing?
That's not what happened.
You sunk my battleship.
That's, you know, we...
We do sometimes call wrestling competitive hugging, so I guess I guess there's also aggressive back damage. aggressive backgammit.
Tell me this wasn't merch.
Well, no, because they broke up.
They broke out the the Kagools they've got from Joan Collins spaceship.
I remember in that one as well.
But you notice most of them are too short and don't fit everyone.
But Sandra said, I'm not touching those fricking orange and blue things, but they can wait.
We can wait until next year when we all have to wear them all.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Those jackets, we turn the lights out.
That's adorable.
The external model shot.
Don't forget, you have to shower with a friend.
Only flush brown.
Yeah, see the yellow, let it mellow. that's exactly right.
Those coats still smell of chicken. at least they hope it's do.
Why?
Like Bob's really angry, but it's just so that he gets lines, we get some conflicts.
I don't, as you said, I mean, Bob's got the same bloody 3 patients.
If I said, I only have 2 scenes in the show?
No, we don't have time.
We don't have any blankets, apparently, in fucking Sick Bay.
Well, the thing I don't understand is like they they drop the heating, whatever, but they don't all go, everyone go to the same 2 rooms and we'll just heat those.
Yeah.
Second unit isn't prepared for that.
No, they've got a very tight spot.
They can't set up the solarium.
Fanboy moment.
That's an Olive Eddie Diffysuma 18 electronic printing business calculator. 1972 designed by the really fabulous architect Mario Bellini.
I wanted one of those.
When I saw her with that, I just thought that it's only 4 functions, plus minus times and divide.
That's all it does.
Really?
But it does kill you to kill your relative.
Absolutely.
And it does say boobs if you turn it up.
Because it's Italian.
And it's got a little 4.8 volt rechargeable battery little cell thing, which she's not plugged in.
It had no display.
It had a printout, it didn't do any display thing.
But it is the very 1st time in history.
We had the, um, the rubber because it wasn't, um, it was, no, it was silicon.
We had silicon.
The pad is silicon.
Silicon rubber and pressure-based.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Neptus has just been playing with their remote, so we'll just enjoy our little brief moment here.
So yeah, that calculated thing.
It's all right.
The calculator thing is...
So they're packing all this stuff away that they needlessly.
God, the amount of light they had to film this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that is like outside.
It does look good, doesn't it?
I mean, it does look really kind of Doesn't it?
There's no there's no power.
You know, it's funny.
I've just pitched to direct waiting for Godo next year.
And that's like a desolate plane with a tree.
And the funny thing is, I said to my set designer, I said, do you think, do you think our theatre could do waiting for Godo?
And he said physically or philosophically?
I'm sure we could do it physically.
Yeah, I don't think you're going to get it past the committee.
So I put in the Miss Marple as well.
So this scene, I think, is really interesting.
And what I think is really good, like an actual clever thing is you get the moment where people are supplying her words.
Like, she's struggling to translate the Sanskrit inscription and people kind of leap in and help her out.
But there's 2 occasions.
There's 2 occasions that actually mean something.
It's when Luke comes in and says seeds because he already knows about the plants.
But there's another one.
Isn't there where someone leaps in and says...
So Helena has just left in with Holocaust.
Yeah, and that's right.
We've got him with who leapt in with destruction.
But those are more sort of understandable than seeds. and alpha's next entry in Eurovision.
She is a botanist and a philologist.
So she was really Nicola Bryant before her time.
So there is a line of dialogue where computer has to choose the 2 most worthwhile people.
So here's the seeds.
So he does the seeds and it's just like he's never looked more hard and she really wants to jump his bones.
I want to stay on this planet and just have sex with him all the time.
And then he says, discover and she says, no, begin.
So like again, it breaks, you know, twice we break that pattern.
We get 3 times where people successfully correct her.
Then he says seeds and she acknowledges it.
And then, and then the moment where we discover that this is where we're from.
Is this the 1st TRAD wife of fiction?
of sci-fi?
I don't think she's tried at all because...
Well, she's going to be.
She's going to be.
They're both going to be Tran, but I'm...
I am totally staying behind on this planet with Orso Maria, I tell you why. doing whatever he says.
I'm sorry, you're not going to be able to repopulate.
Well, but we'll do the best we can.
We'll try as hard as we possibly can.
Look, even that little bit of chest... that moustache is virile enough to impregnate anyone.
Ah, yeah, yeah.
Not to be not to be the totally naughty one here, but I have a feeling Sylvia was playing very fast and loose because he looks like a younger hotter Marty.
The eyebrows.
Was contract negotiations happening?
Well, again, Tomlin has done this as if it's, you know, a series of icons because see how he's arrayed everyone?
or it really doesn't smell like a dance routine. the mortitia eye lighting.
But watch how there's key moments where he shoots awesome Maria in one at one position and then there's a mirror of how he shoots Marty and one of them comes off better than the other.
I'm not saying which.
We just had one a couple of shots ago.
Well, I'll call it out when it happens again.
Oh, is it in Marty's contract that his eyes are going to be just dramatically lit and like the rest of his face is going to be injured?
Yeah, that's right.
Well, he did insist not to be shot from the other side as much as possible.
Yeah, he thought he had a good site blast.
Yeah.
Yeah, he thought he thought that profile would happen, right?
Now that he's in his contract.
Darling, darling, shush. good side is going down.
Just need sucking a good side.
The good side is the top of your head.
You notice he's not wearing the corset there?
From the front.
You see that?
Remembered to hold it in, but no, he refused to wear the corset on this one.
Something about this episode and the belts and the com locks.
All I can think of, seeing this whole, we get, they're in the mid-shot.
Everyone walks out wearing the belts and the com locks.
They look like those vibrating belts that make you lose weight.
I really do.
I just think that Marty's giving you that impression.
And I've just noticed that poor Alan in this scene wasn't actually sitting on anything.
He was just crouching there for 2 minutes.
Victor's got a box.
There's enough boxes.
I know, because they've literally brought everything they've ever touched on the fucking base with them.
We're literally here for 4 hours.
We're going to need a few square meals.
Now, this scene with the music made me think, oh, Ronald D. Moore is watching this.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Because, you know, Battlestar Galactica revival, spoiler alerts for a 20-year-old show, folks. hinges on the discovery that the people in it are connected to Earth via a Bob Dylan song.
Yeah, yeah.
And, you know, this piece of music that I do have written here, but Richard may get to it before me.
I mean, this is just...
There's the picture of autumn composed by Jack Orell.
Yeah, and they used a couple of times.
He's famous for composing the theme to Phoenix 5 for any of us who's old enough, which is no one.
Okay, just have a little moment.
Watch this shot and watch their expressions.
I am utterly convinced Sylvia was having one last wicked cackle and casting Lisa and also because they look like a slightly hotter version of Marty. you're right.
Even the wig is a barbarian. on the length of Helena's.
No, they're definitely she's saying, okay, if series progresses.
She actually says this in the notes to this episode.
She had considered for season two, arcing back to these two.
And I think there might have been a, well, Landau one and Landau two. you don't you want to play the game?
Guess what?
We've got a set up.
I mean I think they're stunning. that's what she was definitely up to.
He looks like a younger.
Oh, there's Ian McCellen in an early life.
Oh no, it's the Lost Islands, isn't it?
I mean, it's also fond...
Isn't that the idea?
Oh, sorry.
The traitors.
Oh, yeah.
But do you remember how do you remember how every episode of Battlestar Galactica 1978 began with Patrick McNee saying there are, well, there are those who believe, you know, that we come from?
Life out here began out there?
Yeah, life out here began out there.
And that's what this is doing.
That's this Von Dennikens thing, which is very much in the air in 1975.
What 68?
But, but what I think is really great about this is here in their final episode, they re, like they don't just reimagine the story of space 1999, whether they're, where they're just destined to turn up here to start the whole thing again.
But they kind of reimagine the story of humanity as a whole.
And that bit there where Conick says, okay, we're going back to Alpha.
Marty Cock blocks the entire scene.
Well, well, no, I was going to say, with the previous scene with the crew, we're kind of given the impression that going back to Walfour is a terrible fucking thing and I'm like, we're all going to die.
But because these 2 have now seen this thing.
It's like we're going back to Alpha.
It is a triumphant moment and the music sells it and the performances sell it.
It does, it does lead to a little bit of a problem that I'm going to discuss when we get there.
When we get there, yes.
It's not as big, it's...
As far as problems...
Oh, that's not a problem.
Paul's left is inflatable in his room.
Is he also imagining baseball statistics?
He's just trying not to come.
Seriously, what is that?
He's going he's going down properly, but then he's like lifting up his shoulders without his arse.
For God's sake, Prentice.
You've got to keep a line in the shoulders and the arse.
Yeah.
Well, when you're doing push-ups, not Gas mark 2, everyone. in many things.
You would think you would have done this earlier, twats.
Yeah.
Well, this is what I mean.
Gather everyone in 2 rooms.
Well, I think part of the problem is, like, this is supposed to be like apocalyptic.
This is supposed to be kind of the end of all things, but we've seen it so many times now at this point that it doesn't land quite as well as it should.
And I was prepared to kind of give it the benefit of the doubt because I think it is a great episode.
But it is, I do think the effect is slightly blunted by the fact that we've been here before.
Yeah, Sylvia and Johnny was Johnny Byrne was saying this is one of their favourite episodes, for all the reasons we've mentioned. but also because they were finally able.
Oh, in a few cases they've been able to bring their regular cast up to camera.
And there were lots and there weren't as many scenes with Martin.
Now, the reason you don't hear from Chanya Alexandria, you know, as in Susan Roquette, you don't hear from Andy Dempsey, who was back there, revived from the dead for this last episode.
But you've seen all this regulars.
Sylvia wanted it to have, as she'd always been character developer way back to the 50s with the puppets.
She wanted to have the sense of truly international, truly rich.
Actually, Eurovision is not that far off. in the sentiment of this.
And for them all to have equal lines, but there was one person on the cast, and she said it was actually done to look great.
She gave the landau far too much creative control, as she says, with, you know, audible exclamation marks.
And yeah, what she was inferring is that Marty cut the time for Nick Tate. for, for, uh, Zena.
And obviously from our, one of our all-time favourites printers.
So their lines were, they did have lines and they're not in it, especially in this one, you really notice Nick.
So David Tomlin actually positioned a couple of things that you'll see a moment in one of the last scenes.
Again, a beautiful eagle shot.
We've not seen that before.
Is that a practical moon?
They're all practical.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. a huge roller. proper autistic nerd made that move.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, there were some photo ones earlier on.
Do you know, the distance ones are just photos. those creators.
So 3D. Yeah, yeah.
So I have to bring up something very quickly on what you said.
My partner, watching this last night, pointed out how wonderful.
Yep, Tanya, how wonderful it was, having an angry black man, who's a doctor, come in, have a meaningful scene where his anger is justified, and it gets addressed.. they were like, 0 my god, when was this made?
Yeah, it's incredible.
Four.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, like in British TV, you know, at the time, it was Lewis Mahoney as the only black person on television.
And so here, where you have 2 black regulars is a thing, I think.
And we're 4 or 5 years off, Gisette Simon.
However, yeah, where 4 years after department is.
True.
And no, there aren't any regular, um, you know, yeah, in the champions.
I'm trying to think back.
No, my partner was just very impressed with the multicultural aspect of the entire thing.
Yeah.
Oh, and she's not a watcher.
She barely remembers it from her youth.
It is very diverse.
Like, even the background actors are too.
Well, that's the thing.
And it's never an issue.
That's the other.
It's not a message.
It's not, you know, it's just there.
Yeah.
These 2 are most definitely Sylvia's slide dig and saying we can recast.
We have the tech.
We're doing fan fiction.
I'm definitely sure she was going to threaten them.
Go on.
I actually think she looks a lot like Silvia.
Well, funny you should say that.
Somebody once said it.
I'm trying to remember who worked on it.
She said, Sylvia always put herself in the shows.
Marina, Lady Penelope, Venus.
Yeah.
In fact, Mother Cumberbatch, Benedict Cumberbatch's mum was cast in UFO because she looked like Sylvia because Sylvia was in charge of casting.
So it was always that little bit of the Alfred Hitchcock anyway.
But in terms of cultural diversity, you can sort of watch the puppet series and see it develop because in Thunderbirds, you've got Kerano and Tin, who are not necessarily the best, you know, they're not going out on restaurants.
She is an engineer.
She is an engineer, but then you move on to Captain Scarlet and you've got, is it Corporal Green?
You've got Lieutenant Green.
Lieutenant Green. by Si Grant.
You've got Harmony Angel, who's Asian.
Yep.
And you've got, sorry, melody is Asian and harmony is southern black.
So yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and then when you get to UFO, they make a concerted effort to cast people of...
All the hotties.
Yeah.
Harry Bird.
Peter Gordano is it?
Yes, yes.
What's her name?
Michael Kane's wife.
Aisha?
No, she's also in it.
Aisha Johnson?
Yeah.
Yeah, there's it's a very much a mixed cast.
Yeah, and then when some of the actors left early on, they stripped their episodes throughout the series.
So it wasn't just the black tackers are only in the 1st 10 episodes.
And that was Sylvia.
Can I ask a question here?
There are 300 people on the base.
Yep.
We're going to put these 2 people on the on the planet on the bonking planet.
With 3 years of food, and yet that's going to condemn everyone else on the moon.
Because there's no power at the moment.
Yeah, they have 50% power.
But with the 50% power.
Yeah, they can replenish their food.
And they've got all their yates seedling.
And yet they could take, you know, 100 tons of things for like a weekend getaway on the planet earlier on.
You see, you see, my thing here is, okay, we've got 50% power, but it's still not ideal, and we have a habitable planet that we need to give bacteria too to give the soil to.
Hey, Paul, Sandra, what's the feasibility in reseating that soil that's going to take 2 years?
We live here for 2 years and then go.
They don't split the difference.
Did we miss that scene?
Because I don't recall that. context and guessing.
No, that's what I'm saying.
They make it in either or situation where it's like, actually, you could split the difference here.
You could start reseeding the planet.
Yeah.
I just think they're not being quite careful enough and that none of that explanation sort of properly makes sense.
And you can imagine dialogue that was fairly brisk and didn't, you know, take up too much of our time that would make that stuff credible.
But I just spent myself thinking, my whole time thinking, it's 2 people.
You know what I mean?
It's literally 2 people and there's 300 people.
Luca blows any chance of that by pre-, you know.
But, like, holding a fricking staple gun next to Cano.
But I mean, that's no worse than like John in, um, uh, the Margaret Layton episode.
The episode where everyone wants to be happy.
Yeah, absolutely.
Or yeah, yeah.
Or the one.
Yeah, the Catherine Shell episode where we could have just lived forever.
And the other weird thing is here, she breaks into the protein store.
But later they've got seeds down on the planet.
And I think, I think that's a brain fart from Johnny Byrne.
I think she's meant to be breaking into the seed vault here.
Oh, yes.
Because, you know, we do have seed also does work out.
Do you know what I mean?
So he probably needs creatine and stuff like that from the protein store.
So sending the seeds didn't hurt them on alpha, did it?
Because those weren't things they could eat.
Well, they were trying to grow oak trees in the solarium.
They were, we've seen the velour bikinis.
I No, I mean, all of that stuff, like just the kind of nuts and bolts of the script don't quite work because it's Johnny Byrne, he's an idiot.
No, no, no.
Sorry, he's lovely.
I'll leave that out of the train.
It's fine.
He can't get into a flame war with us on social media and declare a fat one.
And then go on someone else's podcast making a cup of tea.
I did literally say he was using 19 of his brain last week.
Oh, I think I've found a startled one.
It's not that one They're all lined up like that.
Oh, actually, this was my 2nd choice.
Marty's brilliant in this, by the way.
Again, the eye work, but yeah, no one's irreplaceable money.
Oh no.
And he's Alan and Quentin showing off. is that hot guy?
That's Tony Allen from Australia and Quentin Pierre, who's not from Australia, and they're in almost every episode, normally in eggplant sleeves.
Okay.
And then the aubergines, is then?
And the backup singers and they're always hottie.
Thank you.
And they're the ones sporting next season's Kagools.
Sort of.
Yes, that's what I was thinking as well.
They're not as good. too good to be next season.
But it was just like, we have a whole heap of those.
Like, what happened?
They discovered them in, what's the control room called?
Call control centre or something?
No, this is my mission.
Command centre.
It's freaking awful.
Also, I've got a big question for the science people out there.
How come the windows are condensed and frosted when surely there is always a temperature difference.
And there's no water on the moon?
Like, what's, what's the density?
Well, the ace is on the inside.
We've seen them rub the ice away.
Yeah, so it's just the air is cooler.
Because they're not heating.
But how cold does it have to be to make that happen?
Anyway, Brendan.
They've had to switch off the dominister.
That was the that was in the 2nd phased economy.
It's the heater.
The heater thing that being your turner.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. right.
Oh, God.
He really does look like a younger hotter.
He does have a giant face though, doesn't he?
Yeah, it's like Billy Piper.
It's like, which of which of his facial features is the largest one where you could play something.
So it's the mouth.
It is the vagina was going to be my show.
That's an Easter island.
You just missed it.
Oh, was that it?
at the moment.
Dang.
I did want to get Anna in the shot.
There's the commander and his boy band?
Very much so.
Slightly too tight, too short, little.
So the thing that I think is strange about this, and I don't know how I'm supposed to read it, but because they've seen the mystical vision on the planet, and no one else has, are we supposed to have sympathy with them?
Well, I think Helena does say later, because Koenig says they had a choice and Helena's like, well, actually, did they?
And it's kind of like that philosophical question in the seance episode where you're like, life and death.
What is that?
Whereas here is actually earned because their personalities don't really change.
But I mean, I think they're right.
Are you not rooting for them?
Like, do you not want them to escape and go to the planet?
And I think that's where one of the main areas where the episode succeeds is that Johnny Byrne is not saying that they're right and he's not saying that the rest of the elephants are right.
The whole thing is about the doctor complaining about the people, you know, freezing and having to drop the temperature and command.
It's all about the necessities of decisions.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think that's why Paul, when he does the 1st drop for the medical unit.
He gives them power from where he is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. to kind of go, Paul's not an asshole.
Yeah, but then eventually he can't do that.
The 2nd time he just says, no, sorry, you don't have time.
No, we're all fucked.
Put a fucking blanket on them, for God's sake.
You know, it's late, the sickest one's on fire and then just, yeah, the warm, the other ones.
That's a sequel moment.
Look, where is the Thunderbirds music when that is happening?
I always need that.
So there's a great moment that I think that also does here where, um, he says, he kind of says goodbye to Nick, to, do you know what I mean?
Like, he says goodbye.
There's an eye contact and almost a nod, but not.
Yeah, it's kind of like, it's kind of, yeah, he's an aware, he's aware of what he's leaving behind.
I think it was really subtle for someone who's being dubbed by Mike Nixon.
Not always. doing superb butt acting just then, did we notice?
Nick is fantastic in this.
And do you notice that was one of the moments where David Tomlin managed to get Nick in that scene rather than Marty.
Yeah, okay.
Just Nick had had nothing to do. it is the last episode.
Checkpoint alpha.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I got it.
Because she's a hornbag, and I've got a lot of seed packets done.
His eyes are a long distance apart, aren't they?
They are not as far.
And I think it's accentuated by the fact that his eyebrows are that shape.
Yeah.
And the moustache is another sort of deep water mirror of them.
But he looks so much like Marty, and she looks so much like Helena.
Only younger and higher and bigger.
He is a big lad, isn't he?
Why doesn't Marty have a moustache?
He really needs to grow in.
Look at that, mate.
Look at that lip real estate.
He could just grow a moustache too.
He's like a moustache.
Yeah, yeah, he's a hairy man.
Like, that would definitely happen.
I think I think Nick Tate should have the moustache since he's not talking to us.
It's the 70s.
Why are they not all?
Because maybe they're because of equity and because of the energy.
They're saving them for Star Wars.
You could only have, you could have 2 mistakes.
Prentice was hogging the moustache.
No, they were they were growing them in preparation for the X-Wing pilots and stuff like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Right, it's only 3 years 2 years later when I was shooting that, so 3 years later, yeah.
Oh my god.
And you know what?
The...
I know.
I want that.
I don't know if it's the lighting or the picture, but there is a very slight blue tint making everyone look pale and cold.
Oh, deliberately.
Yeah. because it's cold.
Yeah, good band of light is on the centre of the centre.
Why we not at Midori Alert, right?
Because it would be too warm.
And you know what?
Given the colour of peach Melbourne alert looks pretty accurate. say it's the lighting rather than the grade.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
No, you're right.
It feels like they're cold.
Like if they bumped their knee on a consolidation.
Wait, they are acting cold.
Again, gorgeous. bloody well.
Yeah, so that's a bit of fibreglass behind them.
Luca's actually, like, what I call him, Luca is really good in this.
Sorry, I can't hear you over the sound of how hot Luke is.
I was saying to Nathan in the stairs on the way up here.
He's kind of upsettingly hot because I feel like I shouldn't find him hot with that.
Because he said it weird and ugly as well in all sorts of ways.
He's got the big wide spaced eyes and the massive Italian face and stuff, but holy shit.
But I suppose she's looking startled.
Look, it helps that he doesn't look like someone in their 20s to 30s right now who grows a moustache unironically because they are everywhere everywhere.
I love that.
I mean, I do love kids.
It's adorable.
I can't wait till you grow up.
It was kind of funny it worked the other day.
And do it right or get rid of it?
I hope one of my colleagues saying, I'm going to be 30 soon, and in my head, Oh, wow, that's crazy.
Have you had 50 therapy yet?
In with anger, out with love.
In with anger.
No, with love.
Sorry, what?
I really like Luke and Anna here.
They're not they're not crazy people trying to convince Helen to be crazy with them.
It's...
Although if she's up for it.
Yeah, it's, no, no, we really believe this, and we do want you to understand why, why, like, we're sorry we've done this, but we've done it for this reason.
It's different from previous mad crew member stories.
Like Marty in collision course.
But it's like, I've often said why aren't the, you know, why isn't the guest actor who's doing all this stuff?
Why aren't they a regular?
I don't think you could have done this with the regulars unless you were specifically writing out, say Paul and Sandra.
Which could have worked.
You know, Paul's gone religious zealot before, but I kind of like that it's true. members.
He was on mushrooms.
That's true.
You know, just for that one episode.
It feels like we're missing a scene where they have dictated everything that's happened to them and sent it to Alf.
Yeah, because all of the narration.
It's from their point like, we know everything they've experienced.
Yeah.
We, the viewers.
Marty's telling the story.
He's telling the story.
No, because we're the only ones who saw them in the thing talking to Ian Michaela.
That's true.
Yeah, yeah.
Either that or it's Ergot.
Every ruled out ergon on the planet.
Another thing that I think kind of picks up on, on, on this, and maybe just in the scenes with Helena and those 2 is the very late Voyager episode Good Shepherd.
I don't remember.
So Janeway discovers that there's 3 crew members who've never been on an away mission.
Oh, it's, yeah, yeah.
It's a remake of the one called, there's another one where she has to train people as well.
Nowhere Tuvok has to train people.
Yeah, yeah.
Wait for it, wait for it.
We get exciting eagle on eagle action.
Yes.
Very soon. again, some of the most exciting moments.
And also, I just want to preempt this, where the freak does he keep his kaleidoscope sleeve.
It's cold.
No, no, no, it's cold.
It just shrinks.
We know how that works.
It's called docking.
And if you do...
Again, Don, the reason you're here.
I'm alarmed that you know about that.
I am either the...
I am either the straightest gay man you know or the gayest straight man, you know.
It's never been settled.
I don't think even Holden Shepard has done a bit on Doc.
Boys and boys.
Notice how elegantly they've matched the set to the model because that's why I'm set.
That's why I'm here.
But that dropping bridge.
There it is.
That was the look.
It's beautiful.
There's no nod.
Like, a lesser actor would have nodded.
But there is an acknowledgement with the eyes only.
It's an awareness of what he's lost as well.
Like what he's giving up.
Yeah, banged her, you can have her now.
I feel like the feet were also like magnetised to each other in that previous shot.
Oh, yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Which, you know, is...
That's beautiful too.
These are actually on the surface of the directional jets on the sides of the fuel pods.
So they are magnet links for when Eagle's dog.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
Like the little protruding bits at the side.
And I noticed in that docking shot, they were touching.
So it's like 3 points of contact, which, yeah.
Can I ask another plot thing?
Because one of the things that I was thinking too was how willingly, um, Kernig, uh, acceded to their demands.
And I don't think it's just because they had Helena, although...
Well, here we find out that he's put a tracker on them.
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah.
So that he can go down and get the stuff at his leisure stuff.
Wouldn't that just be a thing anyway?
Because, you know, space.
You know where the ship is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Where'd that planet go?
Maybe it's on some other planet somewhere.
Yeah.
No, you're right.
You're right.
Because I was wondering about that as if, you know, he had some understanding that this was their destiny.
I mean, because that's where the episode lands.
They're right, aren't they?
Anna and Luke are right.
Well, it's it's Anna and Luke, not Adam and Steve.
Yeah, that's true.
Not a sort of Luke and Paul.
Man, duelling moustaches.
I really think Luke should have been called Steve.
I mean, do the Anna Steve, not Adam and Eve.
There is a rather fine number.
It would be great.
There is a rather fun early 2000s stop motion series called Adam and Steve.
There is too.
It's great. imagine us.
And again, mirroring episode one.
We're about to come up to Alan has to chase after the moon that is rapidly going out of all this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Only this time, you know, he makes the right decision.
Although it's nice down there.
That could have been a throuple. to the metal, commander.
Imagine that.
You'd have to think that a better chance of survivor with 4 genomes rather than increasingly inbred children of...
No, once you go biblical, the genetic science gets...
Don't you just think like 4 or 5 generations down, it's all just, you know, people with massive wigs and giant moustaches.
A whole race of Sanskrit reading kind of holsters with Italian accents.
This is the shot that I remember, like from when I was 10.
That where they're looking and seeing the moon.
Yeah.
And and they're sort of happy that their actions haven't killed everyone.
Oh, yes, yes.
With the energy returning, I guess their food issues go.
Yeah, yeah.
Uber everything in from now on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But none of them have watched TV before.
And so they're not aware that this is how the episode's bound to go.
And, you know, there is that thing too.
The other thing that sells that it's destiny is that the thing stops them at the planet drains their energy.
Then once it gets the 2 people to live on the planet and replenish it. lets them go.
So head cannon, my head cannon is the planet drained the energy to start the ecosystem.
Oh, I could see.
Yeah, I was just thinking, like, why drain the energy?
But it is also, I think, to make someone land there.
Yeah, but you don't have to half, you don't have to freeze Bob's patience to do that.
No, it's just fun.
Like, you also have to have fun too, if you're gone.
Yeah, you stop them there and what are they going to do?
Not go and look at the world and they've just stopped that?
Have they never seen the show before?
Oh my god. hold me like that also.
Draw me like this, man, for God's sake. be so heteranormative.
Yeah So the apparently one of the post series novels makes the because this contradicts full circle and we can't have that. because in full circle, they all regress to Cro Magnoms.
Well, how can they regress to Cro Magnons when the Arcadians look like homo sapiens?
And it's, yep, the Arcadians came and cross-bred with the Chrome Magnols to create humans.
And that's why Helena says they're similar to us.
Oh, okay.
Have they seen the size of Luke's forehead, though?
Or the Arcadians who made it to Earth were the BR?
And look at look at the shittiest park of pen.
Do you know what I mean?
That your most unimaginative aunt gave you for Christmas.
You know what that actually was?
progressive band.
So, it's the pen that Johnny Byrne wrote...
I'm trying to remember which US company it was.
It wasn't Parker, it'll come back to me.
So the astronauts, the Apollo mission.
Oh, yes, yes.
Oh, the astronaut pen that Seinfeld had.
Yeah, yeah.
That's what that was. totally standard.
They all fricking did it if you call them upside down because they had a little...
Pressurised.
It's just in a little bulb.
But they sold this one and NASA wanted the money, so it's the same with Rolex watches.
Oh, sorry, Omega watches.
That's why that pen is on that pad.
I mean, I love that it's a pen and a pad.
And it is a definite thing with Star Trek.
It's our 1st captain's log.
But instead of being dictated to, you know, camera or whatever, it's being, you know, written.
So, it is almost the end, but the moment has been prepared for the end.
Let's face it, this is the end.
Oh, except we had girl on girl disco next week, because that's what we're here for.
But yeah.
What did you think?
I mean I think this is the perfect ending for the show.
Yeah, and I think because it's an accident, like the show, like the whole thing is an accident and all of these weird accidents happen to them, but everything that happens to them is also superintended by these strange, godlike entities, you know, the black son.
What were the 4 episodes that you said?
Black Suns, of course.
And there was another one.
I'm trying to think it was another time, another place.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All of those things, yeah. where strange where there is a purpose where something...
Sorry, war games.
Yeah, war mentioned.
Yeah, war games.
War games, Black Sun collision course, war games, and this one.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was the intersection of art. and populist entertainment this episode.
Yeah, yeah, really?
Everyone got to showcase their division in the production.
Yeah.
No, I think it's stunningly beautiful.
I think it is absolutely a capstone.
And then next year when it's all just rubber monsters.
Sylvia says that as well.
I think Catherine Shell in a gorilla suit.
Deadly trees.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But do they have safe words?
You always need safe words with rubber mons.
Yeah, super upsetting.
But that was something.
I think that was something really incredible.
And I'm not surprised that I can remember images of it from, you know, like nearly 50 years ago. last shot because we've actually already seen that episode where they're pulling the set apart while we're watching it.
Oh, yeah, that was one.
That was the foam. was a foam party.
Yeah, yeah, it was a Bezos foam pony.
They had to come back and refilm some.
But yeah, this was shot with Dragon's domain right at the end.
They're already way over time, no money, begging money from everywhere.
But the quality is there.
And I felt that everyone was putting in even more for this episode.
Unlike this podcast.
Much like this.
I think that we might wind up there in that case, but are there things that we need to plug?
So next weekend, the three-handed game will have the 2nd part of our interview with Annette Andre.
We've heard back from her.
She's doing well.
She had about of not great health, but she's doing great for 85.
And we're going to try and get her on Big Finish.
She's super, super keen.
I just listened to one with Wendy Craig from...
Yes.
My mother makes umpteenth and butterflies and Manny and Wendy Craig did one about 10 years ago and she's superb.
So let's hope.
I think she's just done another one recently Wendy?
Oh, great.
Possibly with Jody.
That'd be interesting actually.
Wow. amazing.
And Jody's about to have a nice warrior story with D.I. Menzies, who was in a couple of Colin Bakers years and years ago.
Oh, okay.
With Charlie and Evelyn.
So they're doing for Jodie what they did for Colin and Rehabilitation.
Yeah.
We're in the throes of recording 500-year diary, but it's going to be weeks before you get to hear that.
So I'm not going to say anything more about it. am in it this time.
You are. that's right So all that remains is for me to say, until next time, I remember that your life does have a purpose, but that it's up to you to decide what it is.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Don't forget to spay and you do your pets.
That's right, and keep them zipped up.